I am build as the world's greatest mind
readader. But guess what? I can't read
minds. What I can do is read people.
And people ask a question all the time,
which is were you born with this? And
the answer is no. Of course not.
Absolutely not. I do not possess any
supernatural powers. I am not a psychic.
This is a learnable skill that I feel
anyone could do, but I've applied for
about roughly three decades at reverse
engineering the human mind. If I know
how you think, I know what you think.
And I want to ask each and every one of
you in this room a question. But before
we do, take a deep breath in. Take a
deep breath in. Exhale out. And close
your eyes. Little zen mode. Okay. I see
the people with trust issues, eyes wide
open, holding their wallets and phones.
Fellow New Yorkers,
here is my question. If you could have
dinner, hypothetical, with someone
famous, right? Some of you have heard
this question already. I didn't invent
it. I love asking people. Someone
famous, dead or alive, past or present,
man, woman, whatever. I like to ask
people, who would that person be for
you? It's fascinating. Everyone's
different. And if you've already done
it, open your eyes. Some of you have
done it. Some of you are quick. I see
nods. I see people that are decisive. If
you haven't, you always need a deadline
for creativity. 3 2 1 crunch time. Open
your eyes. Everyone out there, give me a
big clap over your head if you can see
your person in your mind's eye. Give me
a big clap.
One more big clap.
Notice the technique. Elbows locked on
this man. Michael Phelps would have been
jealous of that streamline. Stand up,
please. Stand up, please. Introduce
yourself.
>> Uh, sorry. I'm Ian. Ian, question for
you. Before you walked in this room and
sat down, did you have any idea who I
was or what I was going to do?
>> No, actually, sorry.
>> Okay, that's cool. Nobody reads the
agenda. Totally fine. Totally fine. Give
me another clap. Give me another clap. I
like that. Right here, you not only clap
but threw in a little belly dance, I
reward extra credits.
She's hiding her name tag. She's like,
I'm giving the mentalist nothing. Tell
us what is your name?
>> Oh, hi. I'm Nera.
>> Nera, stand up, please. Did I say that
correctly, Nira?
>> Yeah.
>> Wonderful. Wonderful. Give me another
clap. Give me another clap. One more
clap.
This man and I just locked eyes. When we
made eye contact, he closed his eyes
tightly
as if activating a camouflage shield
where if he doesn't see me, would I
still see him? I still see you. Jeff
Johnson, stand up. Please give all three
helpers a round of applause.
Notice the question and the way it was
phrased.
Dead or alive? 50/50. Like flipping a
coin. All three of you, please. I don't
read minds. I'm telling you the truth. I
read people. Try not to react. If the
person you thought of is alive, then
their heart is beating in their chest.
The room is getting warm like the blood
flowing through their veins. They're
happy. They're smiling. Alive. Warming
up. Warming up. Cold. You feel a shiver
down your neck. Clearcut. 100% 100% Jeff
Johnson, your person is alive and well.
Am I right?
>> You're right.
>> The boisterous smile, the effervescence.
100%. Versus Ian. Dead guy vibes written
all over this guy. Is it a dead guy?
>> Yes.
>> Classic Ian. Classic.
Ian,
focus on this. Now, also the lingering
hands and pockets always indicator of
another guy. Guy to guy interaction. Is
it a guy?
>> Of course it is. If it's a female, hands
in front of the crotch. I don't know
why.
[Laughter]
A few of you are going to get home and
you see your husband like this and
you're like, "Who is she?"
Ian, think of his first name. Think of
his last name. First name, last name.
Come back to me. The first name, try to
count the letters. This doesn't make
sense. Listen to me. This doesn't make
sense. He was confused when I asked
about the last name. He tried to shield
it, but I saw it. Why was he confused?
Then I asked the first in count the
letters. It was too long. Sit down if
it's Alexander the Great. What?
You don't have to hold the applause
inside, Ted. You can let it out.
Now,
you've seen a taste of what I do, and
this is used primarily for the purpose
of entertainment. But what I'd like to
show you now is how you could apply the
principles of my craft, which is known
as mentalism, to your everyday lives at
home, at work, in your relationships.
How would guessing a celebrity out of a
stranger's mind help you? Well, frankly,
it really can't.
But I have a situation, a scenario.
Well, knowing someone's name would be
incredibly valuable. Let me paint a
portrait. You're at a party. You're at a
work event. You've walked up to somebody
new. You've looked them in the eye.
You've shaken their hands. You've
introduced yourselves to each other. And
right at that moment, you realize that
you have completely forgotten the
person's name who just told it to you
one second ago. Raise your hand if you
can share this experience. You raise
your hand, too, you liar. She's like,
"Not me. Not me."
I want to give you a superpower from
this day forward where you will never
ever forget the name of someone you just
met, ever. And how am I going to do
this? Using, can you guess? Shampoo.
Didn't see that one coming, did you? The
back of every bottle of shampoo is a
master class in brilliant marketing.
Three words in the instructions. Lather,
rinse, repeat. Right? Lather makes your
hair smell good. Rinse makes it clean.
Repeat. We got to sell some product.
I want to repurpose that catchphrase
that each and every one of you will
remember and take with you for the rest
of your days. Listen. Repeat, reply. Say
it with me. Listen, repeat, reply.
Listen sounds like the most obvious
thing. Of course, listen to the name.
But that's where most of you falter. At
the moment the person tells you the
name, you are actually not listening.
You are thinking about what you're going
to say back. Do I know this person or
what am I going to say next? Or am I
hungry? Or a million other thoughts that
pop into your head. It's not a memory
issue. You didn't forget the name. You
never knew it. Imagine I give you a twig
and I tell you write my name in the sand
at the beach and you try with the twig
first wave washes it away. But if I give
you a thick branch, you carve it in. You
repeat those letters. It's going to take
a whole lot of waves until there's no
trace. So here's what each of you is
going to do. I challenge you. When you
meet the next person, make your mind a
blank for all of two seconds. When they
say their name, truly listen. And now
repeat. Everybody say it with me.
Repeat.
>> Repeat. We are going to say their name
twice back to them. Right. Ashley, is
that right? Great to meet you, Ashley.
This serves two purposes. One, it's kind
of repetitively ingrains it in our
memory. Second, you know how to
pronounce it correctly. Nera, am I
saying that right? Nera. See, there was
a reason I did that. Third, third,
reply. Listen, repeat. Reply. Reply is
where we fully cement the name in. Here
is how we do that. I'll give you three
examples. First one, a compliment.
Everyone loves a good compliment, right,
Ashley? Those earrings. I love those
earrings. Ashley, now she's Ashley with
the earrings. A visual indicator.
Next up, spelling. Do you spell that,
Ashley? With an ei gh or with an ey? Ey,
of course. That's the right spelling,
Ashley. I knew. I knew. Or third, a
personal connection. Ashley, that's so
funny. My cousin's married to an Ashley.
Is my cousin really married to an
Ashley? Absolutely not. I'm a total
liar.
But none of you will forget the name
Ashley
and neither will I. And neither will we
forget Nera after I said her name
multiplied. Nera I think again rouging
of the cheeks little sweat your person
is alive also. Am I correct?
>> Correct.
>> Now what I do in my profession is I take
things that appear to have limitless
possibilities and break them down.
People that are famous there's several
kind of categories. I'm going to say
them quickly. You don't have to nod. But
we had a conqueror. Let's call it a
historical figure. We have singers,
movie stars, we have athletes,
comedians, politicians already
registered a hit. Too funny. Too funny.
You did this. All right. Shouldn't have
smiled. Tighten it up. Njira.
[Applause]
Three days ago. I did a show in Dallas,
Texas. Dallas, Texas. And the last
person standing thought of a singer.
It's always singers where this happens.
I got his singer correct and he didn't
sit down. And do you know what he said
to me? I go, "Sir, you know why isn't he
sitting down?" He goes, "Oh yeah, what
song am I thinking of?"
I'm like, "Buddy, this is not Netflix."
always singers.
Tell us all who in your mind is sitting
across from you having dinner. You're on
the edge of your seat. Tell us all.
What's their name?
>> Bob Dylan. Bob Dylan.
>> I couldn't hear you.
>> Bob Dylan.
>> Bob Dylan. Can I ask you a question? I
always like this. Everyone listen to me.
I call this the grass is greener
approach. I can always see it when
someone eyes shift. She goes, "I like
Bob Dylan, but I actually had someone
else in my mind." You thought of someone
else. It's in the back of your head, but
you just shifted. Can you tell me? I can
Folks,
this is not my first rodeo.
Who was the first person you thought of?
>> Tell us.
>> Trevanoa.
O,
>> it's not a singer.
Don't ever doubt me again, Ted. Don't
you ever doubt me again?
Jeff, do you know what the most common
question I get at the end of a show is?
I get the question, other than of
course, how do you do it? Is, aren't you
afraid of getting it wrong? That's what
I get asked because people understand
that there is risk involved in what I
do. This is not slight of hand card
tricks that work every time. And so the
answer is yeah, of course. Of course I
am. You know what? Because what's
fascinating to me is people can feel the
element of risk. And I think the number
one factor in success both on stage and
in every facet of my life is an
unshakable belief that it will work.
It's self-fulfilling. And in this case,
it's not a belief that I'm going to
guess your person. Been there, done
that.
I don't plateau, Jeff. I peak. So, I am
not going to read your mind. I want to
empower someone in this room to do it
instead. This Frisbee
was purchased on Amazon Prime. Free
two-day shipping 87.
It has a 1.5 star review.
This is literally the worst frisbee in
the world.
Please, sir, grab that. Tell me your
first name.
>> Dylan.
>> That's correct.
>> Stand up, Dylan. The Frisbee is made out
of mesh, everybody. Which means if it
hits you in the face, it will not hurt,
but it will hurt your pride if this goes
viral on TED talks later. Everyone,
hands up in defensive posture. Dylan,
close your eyes. So, you can't even try
to aim this piece of junk. Throw it.
Catch. Someone catch. Someone catch.
Give it a throw. Please go. Oh my god.
Is that far? Mike, runner. Run. Run.
Run. Run. Run. Stand up. Stand up.
Please stand up. Please stand up. Please
stand up. What is your name? Did you say
Brett?
>> Yeah. Brett.
>> Brett. Have you ever met or spoken a
word to Jeff Johnson before?
>> I actually haven't.
>> Okay. Maybe more networking at the next
breakout session. Uh,
please Brett, come on up. Give him a
huge round of applause. Make your way
out. Brett,
two T's. I like the way you roll, Brett.
Not going to forget that name, are Now,
>> pleasure to meet you, sir.
>> Brett, I'm bringing you front and
center.
>> All right,
>> let's adjust this to the height my wife
wishes I had. Okay,
>> she is watching this now live and saying
that's true. Uh Brett, here's what
you're going to do.
I'm going to ask you in a moment, have
you ever spoken to me a word in your
life?
>> I haven't.
>> He seemed happy about that. That was
weird. Uh, I'm going to ask him in a
moment to close his eyes.
You need to believe it in order to
achieve it. When you close your eyes,
I'm going to ask Jeff to uncap a marker
and you're going to write the person.
Now, very important, Jeff. You thought
of one person. Is that correct?
>> That's right.
>> Okay. Cuz you know, Nira is like having
dinner. She's like, "Load it up. Let's
get a six top." Brett, close your eyes.
His eyes are closed. Brett, keep your
eyes closed.
Jeff, open up your marker, please. As
big as you can so we can't see it. Write
down the first and last name of the
person you are imagining sitting down to
dinner with.
Brett, open your eyes. You have to
believe it in order to achieve it. Look
not into his eyes. Look into his soul.
And when I snap my fingers, tell him who
is he having dinner with.
>> Barack Obama.
>> Turn it around. Show everybody. Show
everybody.
Thank you, Brett.
I am O Pearlman. Thank you very much
everybody.